# Health-Chat-Bot

Welcome to the Health-Chat-Bot repository! This project aims to develop an interactive chatbot capable of answering health-related queries and providing useful information to users. The chatbot is based on a machine learning model trained on a dataset of health-related intents.

## Files and Folder Structure

The repository contains the following files and folders:

1. **chat_model** (folder): This folder contains the machine learning model and related files used by the chatbot.

   - **chat.ipynb**: A Jupyter Notebook file that contains the implementation and code for the chatbot.
   - **chat.py**: The Python script version of the chatbot, making it easy to run the chatbot as a standalone application.
   - **intents.json**: A JSON file that contains the dataset of health-related intents. This file is used for training the model.
   - **label_encoder.pickle**: A pickled file that stores the label encoder used during the model training process.
   - **notes.txt**: A text file containing important notes or information related to the model or the chatbot's implementation.
   - **tokenizer.pickle**: A pickled file that stores the tokenizer used during the model training process.
   - **train.ipynb**: A Jupyter Notebook file that includes the code and steps for training the machine learning model.
   - **train.py**: The Python script version of the training code. This script is used to train the model.

2. **requirements.txt**: A text file that lists all the Python dependencies and packages required to run the chatbot successfully. It's recommended to install these dependencies using `pip` before running the chatbot.

3. **tempCodeRunnerFile.py**: A temporary file generated by the code runner in the development process. It can be ignored.

## Getting Started

To run the Health-Chat-Bot on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the `chat_model` folder.
3. Install the required dependencies by running the following command in your terminal or command prompt:


4. After installing the dependencies, you can run the chatbot in two ways:

   - Run the Jupyter Notebook file `chat.ipynb` or `train.ipynb` in your preferred Jupyter environment.
   - Alternatively, run the Python scripts using the following commands:

     ```
     python chat.py
     ```
     
     or

     ```
     python train.py
     ```

5. The chatbot will start running, and you can interact with it by typing in your health related queries.

## Contributing
For now three people i.e Jeeban Bhagat, Ashutosh Raj and Aashish Kumar have completed this as course project.

If you'd like to contribute to the development of the Health-Chat-Bot, feel free to create pull requests or raise issues in the repository. Your feedback, suggestions, and contributions are highly appreciated!


Happy Chatting!
